DOCS-1247-PGD-6.0-Docs (#6763)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/6/reference/node_management/replication_slots.mdx

---
title: Replication slots created by PGD
---

> In previous versions of PGD, replication slots had human-readable names. With PGD 6, that has switched over to using UUIDs for nodes and groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous versions of PGD, replication slots had human-readable names. PGD 6 has switched over to using UUIDs for nodes and groups
```

to ensure better identification.

> Replication slots are used by PostgreSQL to track the progress of replication. They are used to ensure that the data being replicated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replication slots are used by PostgreSQL to track the progress of replication. They're used to ensure that the data being replicated
```

is not lost and that the replication process is consistent. In PGD, replication slots are used to track the progress of replication

> from that node. There is one slot per downstream node. Ther is also a special replication slot used for tracking replication progress from a given 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from that node. There is one slot per downstream node. There's also a special replication slot used for tracking replication progress from a given 
```

node globally across all downstream nodes.

- One group slot, named `bdr_<topgroupuuid>_<dbhash>`

> - N-1 node slots named `bdr_node_<targetnodeuuid>_<dbhash>`, where N is the total number of nodes in the cluster, including direct logical standbys, if any.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- N-1 node slots named `bdr_node_<targetnodeuuid>_<dbhash>`, where N is the total number of nodes in the cluster, including direct logical standbys, if any
```

> Where `topgroupuuid` is the string representation of the top level-group's UUID (less the `-` characters) and `dbhash` is a hash of the database name. You can obtain the UUID of the top-level group using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where `topgroupuuid` is the string representation of the top level-group's UUID (less the `-` characters) and `dbhash` is a hash of the database name. You can obtain the UUID of the top-level group using:
```

```sql
select node_group_uuid from bdr.node_group where node_group_parent_id=0;
```

And `dbhash` is a hash of the database name. You can obtain the hash using:

```sql
select to_hex(hashtext('pgddb'));
```

And the `targetnodeuuid` is the string representation of the target node's UUID (less the `-` characters). You can obtain the UUID of the target node using:

```sql
select node_uuid from bdr.node where node_name='<target_node_name>';
```

The complete group slot name is returned by the function [`bdr.local_group_slot_name()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/functions#bdrlocal_group_slot_name).

!!! Warning
Don't drop those slots. PGD creates and manages them and drops them when or if necessary.

- Avoid touching slots prefixed with `bdr_` slots directly.

> - And do not start slot names with the prefix `bdr_`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don't start slot names with the prefix `bdr_`.
```

    up and running (although the majority of nodes should be up). This process doesn't
    incur data loss in case the node that was down during join starts
    replicating again.
- Part nodes from the cluster consistently, even if some nodes haven't
    caught up fully with the parted node.
- Hold back the freeze point to avoid missing some conflicts.
- Keep the historical snapshot for timestamp-based snapshots.

The group slot is usually inactive and is fast forwarded only periodically in response to Raft progress messages from other nodes.

!!! Warning
    Don't drop the group slot. Although usually inactive, it's
    still vital to the proper operation of the EDB Postgres Distributed cluster. If you drop it,
    then some or all of PGD's features can stop working or have incorrect outcomes.

## Other slot names

Other functionality within PGD makes use of replication slots.

For example, when a node is added to a group, a slot is created for that node to track its progress in the replication process.

This slot is named `bdr_node_<targetnodeuuid>_<dbhash>_tmp`.

There are also slots created for the analytics and decoding features of PGD.

> These slots are named:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These slots have the following names.
```
